VPCs are closely related to IP networks.
In order to set up a VPC,
we need to provide it a network range.
Let's look briefly at what a network range is.
A network range is a consecutive set of IP addresses.
In order to more concisely describe a network range,
AWS uses CIDR notation.
CIDR is an acronym for Classless Inter-Domain Routing,
but we don't really need to worry about what all that means.
CIDR notation is comprised of an IP address,
followed by a slash, followed by a number.
The IP address is the first address in the network range.
The number after the slash tells us how big the range is.
The smaller the number,
the more addresses in the network range.
Well, technically we can use any number between zero and 32.
If we stick to 16 or 24,
things stay a lot simpler.
If we use /16,
we use the maximum of the second half of the IP address as the end of the network range.
So 10.2.0.0/16 goes from
10.2.0.0 to 10.2.245.255.
If we use a slash 24,
we use the maximum of the last quarter of the IP or
10.2.0.0/24 would go
from 10.2.0.0 to 10.2.0.255.
The detailed mechanics of using CIDR notation to determine
a network range involve a topic called bit masking.
That goes beyond the scope of this course.
For now, you can just remember that /24 means
255 addresses and /16 means 65,000 addresses.
You may have run into situations where two computers on a network
try to use the same IP address, things don't go well.
They fight and complain, and no one is happy.
When two VPCs have overlapping network ranges,
the concept is basically the same.
You cannot connect two VPCs that have the same or overlapping network ranges.